> **UNIVERSITY** **OF** **IBADAN** **DEPARTMENT** **OF** **COMPUTER**
> **SCIENCE**

**HUMAN** **COMPUTER** **INETRACTION** **EXAMINATION**

**Answer** **All** **Questions** **in** **Section** **A** **and**
**any** **other** **two** **in** **section** **B** **2** **Hours**
**45** **Minutes**

**Section** **A:** **Question** **1**

a\. XYZ organization has a product which is well thriving and
widely-used for over a decade. Would such a product require usability
study? Explain this extensively. 4 marks

b\. Describe in detail the role of a UX researcher and the
research/technical skills they require/use. 4 marks

c\. What aspects would you want to evaluate for the following systems: 5
Marks

> \(a\) personal music player (e.g. a smartphone app) (b) a website for
> selling clothes

d\. It’s often tempting to start the design of an interactive product
from the design of its interface. Discuss in detail what yielding to
this temptation would result into. 4 marks

e\. An interactive device was tested by a group of potential users. Each
user was asked to perform a certain task on the device. The following
table shows the task completion times (in minutes) on the device.

||
||
||
||

Draw a scatter diagram to give you an overall view of the data. Then
make initial observations and discuss if there are observations that
might need further investigation. 6 marks

<img src="./bso3xpnn.png"
style="width:9.17276in;height:4.88695in" />f. In an experiment to
determine which user interface (command-line, desktop metaphor, or
virtual environment) allows users to perform their task quickest, what
might the following be: (i) The independent variables and their levels
(ii) The dependent variables. Justify your response. 4 Marks

g\. Spot three poorly designed features in the questionnaire in Figure 1
(3 Marks)

> Figure 1: A questionnaire with poorly designed features

**SECTION** **B**

<u>Question 2</u>

a\. Imagine you are the technical director of an electronic company that
makes a wide range of product including home entertainment systems,
safety-critical systems and business productivity tools. You wish to
persuade the board of directors that they should employ a number of
Human Factors people. Write some outline notes of the presentation you
would make to the next board meeting. 4 Marks

b\. What is meant by a 'gestalt,' illustrate your answer with an
example? 2 Marks

c\. What is cognitive psychology? Discuss how you applied it to your HCI
term project. (Ensure to include your group nos/title) 4 Marks

d\. In practice, the makeup of a given design team depends on the kind
of interactive product being built. Who do you think should be involved
in developing an interactive educational website to accompany a TV
series? 3 Marks

e\. What is a prototype? Discuss briefly the 2 types of prototype 3
Marks

f\. A company is developing a new car seat to monitor if a person starts
to fall asleep when driving and to provide a wake-up call using
olfactory and haptic feedback. Where would you evaluate it? 4 Marks

<u>Question 3.</u>

a\. UXer Company has hired you as a UX researcher to carry out a
usability study on the high fidelity prototype of a product. Discuss the
pros and cons of using the following methods to determine if the
prototype is usable:

> ● Think Aloud and Walkthrough
>
> ● Questionnaire 6 Marks

b\. Why is a pilot study necessary? Explain how pilot study was used in
your HCI project and discuss the gains benefitted from using it.
(Remember to include your project number and title) 5 Marks

c\. A modern hotel has installed a sandwich making robot to supply room
service sandwiches at any hour of the day. The hotel also has an
automated delivery system that will take the completed sandwich to a
specified room. You have been asked to program a software agent
interface that guests can phone to order sandwiches. Would you use a
voice recognition system or ask the user to push phone buttons to enter
responses? Explain the relative advantages and disadvantages of each for
this particular situation. 6 Marks

d\. What is the difference between the following (3 Marks)

> \(i\) HCI and User Experience
>
> \(ii\) HCI and Software Engineering (iii) Personas and Storyboard
>
> \(iv\) UX Methods and UX Tools

<u>Question 4</u>

a\. African Lady booked a return ticket to fly from Benin to Ibadan for
Christmas holiday using an online e-commerce site. She was impressed by
the cheapness of the ticket and the fact that all the booking was done
electronically. At the check point, on the day she was expected to
embark on the journey, the airline representative said, “You do know
that you are flying back from Benin to Sokoto, don’t you?”. She felt sad
and let down. How would you redesign the online booking Web site
interactions to avoid such problems? 4 Marks

b\. What is the difference between summative and formative evaluation?
Why are both needed in the development of interactive computer systems?
4 Marks

c\. Imagine you are a consultant who is employed to help develop a new
computerized garden planning tool to be used by amateur and professional
garden designers. Your goal is to find out how garden designers use an
early prototype as they walk around their clients’ gardens sketching
design ideas, taking notes, and asking the clients about what they like
and how they and their families use the garden. What type of data
recording approach(es) would you recommend for this environment? Justify
the reason for your choice(s) over others. 4 Marks

d\. What is the difference between the following (4 Marks)

> \(i\) quantitative and qualitative analysis
>
> \(ii\) probability sampling and non-probability sampling (iii) Likert
> and semantic differential scale
>
> \(iv\) direct and indirect observation

e\. What are the system/design requirements of your HCI project? Develop
a standard task for the evaluation of the high fidelity prototype of
your group project. (Remember to include your project number and title).
4 Marks